DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Testing Environment

This guide explains how to run the entire application stack using Docker for quick testing and development.

## Overview

The Docker setup includes:
- **PostgreSQL 15**: Database with test data
- **Backend**: Axum API server
- **Frontend**: Yew WASM app served via Nginx

Everything runs in containers with no external dependencies needed.

## Prerequisites

Install Docker and Docker Compose:
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) (includes Docker Compose)
- Or Docker Engine + Docker Compose plugin

## Quick Start

### 1. Start Everything

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

This will:
1. Start PostgreSQL database
2. Build and start the backend (runs migrations + seeds test data)
3. Build and start the frontend

### 2. Access the Application

Once all services are running:
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:8080
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:3000
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:3000/health

### 3. Stop Everything

```bash
# Stop and remove containers
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers + volumes (deletes database data)
docker-compose down -v
```

## Test Data

The setup automatically seeds the database with sample data:

**Sample Todos:**
- 5 manual todos (including completed items)
- 2 email-sourced todos
- 3 calendar-sourced todos

**Sample Accounts:**
- 2 email accounts (work@example.com, personal@example.com)
- 2 calendar accounts

You can modify `seed-data.sql` to customize the test data.

## Development Workflow

### Rebuilding After Code Changes

```bash
# Rebuild and restart specific service
docker-compose up --build backend

# Or rebuild everything
docker-compose up --build
```

### View Logs

```bash
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f backend
docker-compose logs -f frontend
docker-compose logs -f postgres
```

### Access Database Directly

```bash
# Connect to PostgreSQL
docker-compose exec postgres psql -U testuser -d agentive_inversion

# Example queries
SELECT * FROM todos;
SELECT * FROM email_accounts;
SELECT * FROM calendar_accounts;
```

### Reset Database

```bash
# Stop containers and remove volumes
docker-compose down -v

# Start fresh (will re-run migrations and seed data)
docker-compose up --build
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Docker Network              │
│                                     │
│  ┌──────────┐      ┌───────────┐  │
│  │          │      │           │  │
│  │ Frontend ├─────►│  Backend  │  │
│  │ (Nginx)  │      │  (Axum)   │  │
│  │   :8080  │      │   :3000   │  │
│  │          │      │           │  │
│  └──────────┘      └─────┬─────┘  │
│                          │         │
│                    ┌─────▼──────┐  │
│                    │            │  │
│                    │ PostgreSQL │  │
│                    │   :5432    │  │
│                    │            │  │
│                    └────────────┘  │
│                                     │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
         │
         │ Port Mappings
         ▼
    Host Machine
    localhost:8080 → Frontend
    localhost:3000 → Backend API
    localhost:5432 → Database
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The Docker setup uses hardcoded test credentials (defined in `docker-compose.yml`):
- Database: `testuser:testpassword`
- Database Name: `agentive_inversion`

**Note**: This is for testing only. DO NOT use these credentials in production.

### Customizing Ports

Edit `docker-compose.yml` to change port mappings:

```yaml
services:
  frontend:
    ports:
      - "9090:8080"  # Change host port to 9090

  backend:
    ports:
      - "4000:3000"  # Change host port to 4000
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use

If ports 8080, 3000, or 5432 are already in use:

```bash
# Find what's using the port
lsof -i :8080
lsof -i :3000
lsof -i :5432

# Kill the process or change ports in docker-compose.yml
```

### Build Failures

```bash
# Clean everything and rebuild
docker-compose down -v
docker system prune -a
docker-compose up --build
```

### Backend Won't Start

Check if migrations are failing:
```bash
docker-compose logs backend
```

Common issues:
- Database not ready: Wait for postgres health check
- Migration errors: Check `migrations/` directory

### Frontend Shows 502 Bad Gateway

The frontend is trying to proxy to the backend but can't connect:
```bash
# Check if backend is running
docker-compose ps

# Check backend logs
docker-compose logs backend
```

## Differences from Production

This Docker setup is for **testing only**:

1. **No Security**:
   - No HTTPS
   - Hardcoded credentials
   - CORS fully open
   - No authentication

2. **No Gmail/Calendar Pollers**:
   - Requires real OAuth credentials
   - Not needed for UI testing

3. **Development Mode**:
   - More verbose logging
   - No optimizations

## Next Steps

Once you've tested the UI:
1. Set up real database (Neon PostgreSQL)
2. Configure Google OAuth credentials
3. Run services individually for development
4. See [QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md) for full setup

## Running Individual Services

You can run services independently:

```bash
# Just the database
docker-compose up postgres

# Database + Backend
docker-compose up postgres backend

# Everything
docker-compose up
```

## Cleaning Up

```bash
# Remove containers
docker-compose down

# Remove containers + volumes
docker-compose down -v

# Remove containers + volumes + images
docker-compose down -v --rmi all
```

Commit message:

Move seed data injection to dev script only (#43)
- Remove automatic seed data loading from docker-entrypoint
- Remove seed-data.sql from Dockerfile.backend
- Update DOCKER.md to use ./dev.sh db:seed for test data

DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Testing Environment

This guide explains how to run the entire application stack using Docker for quick testing and development.

## Overview

The Docker setup includes:
- **PostgreSQL 15**: Database with test data
- **Backend**: Axum API server
- **Frontend**: Yew WASM app served via Nginx

Everything runs in containers with no external dependencies needed.

## Prerequisites

Install Docker and Docker Compose:
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) (includes Docker Compose)
- Or Docker Engine + Docker Compose plugin

## Quick Start

### 1. Start Everything

```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

This will:
1. Start PostgreSQL database
2. Build and start the backend (runs migrations)
3. Build and start the frontend

### 2. Access the Application

Once all services are running:
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:8080
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:3000
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:3000/health

### 3. Stop Everything

```bash
# Stop and remove containers
docker-compose down

# Stop and remove containers + volumes (deletes database data)
docker-compose down -v
```

## Test Data

To load sample test data, use the dev script:

```bash
./dev.sh db:seed
```

This loads `seed-data.sql` which includes:

**Sample Todos:**
- 5 manual todos (including completed items)
- 2 email-sourced todos
- 3 calendar-sourced todos

**Sample Accounts:**
- 2 email accounts (work@example.com, personal@example.com)
- 2 calendar accounts

You can modify `seed-data.sql` to customize the test data.

## Development Workflow

### Rebuilding After Code Changes

```bash
# Rebuild and restart specific service
docker-compose up --build backend

# Or rebuild everything
docker-compose up --build
```

### View Logs

```bash
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f backend
docker-compose logs -f frontend
docker-compose logs -f postgres
```

### Access Database Directly

```bash
# Connect to PostgreSQL
docker-compose exec postgres psql -U testuser -d agentive_inversion

# Example queries
SELECT * FROM todos;
SELECT * FROM email_accounts;
SELECT * FROM calendar_accounts;
```

### Reset Database

```bash
# Stop containers and remove volumes
docker-compose down -v

# Start fresh (will re-run migrations)
docker-compose up --build

# Optionally load seed data
./dev.sh db:seed
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Docker Network              │
│                                     │
│  ┌──────────┐      ┌───────────┐  │
│  │          │      │           │  │
│  │ Frontend ├─────►│  Backend  │  │
│  │ (Nginx)  │      │  (Axum)   │  │
│  │   :8080  │      │   :3000   │  │
│  │          │      │           │  │
│  └──────────┘      └─────┬─────┘  │
│                          │         │
│                    ┌─────▼──────┐  │
│                    │            │  │
│                    │ PostgreSQL │  │
│                    │   :5432    │  │
│                    │            │  │
│                    └────────────┘  │
│                                     │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
         │
         │ Port Mappings
         ▼
    Host Machine
    localhost:8080 → Frontend
    localhost:3000 → Backend API
    localhost:5432 → Database
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The Docker setup uses hardcoded test credentials (defined in `docker-compose.yml`):
- Database: `testuser:testpassword`
- Database Name: `agentive_inversion`

**Note**: This is for testing only. DO NOT use these credentials in production.

### Customizing Ports

Edit `docker-compose.yml` to change port mappings:

```yaml
services:
  frontend:
    ports:
      - "9090:8080"  # Change host port to 9090

  backend:
    ports:
      - "4000:3000"  # Change host port to 4000
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use

If ports 8080, 3000, or 5432 are already in use:

```bash
# Find what's using the port
lsof -i :8080
lsof -i :3000
lsof -i :5432

# Kill the process or change ports in docker-compose.yml
```

### Build Failures

```bash
# Clean everything and rebuild
docker-compose down -v
docker system prune -a
docker-compose up --build
```

### Backend Won't Start

Check if migrations are failing:
```bash
docker-compose logs backend
```

Common issues:
- Database not ready: Wait for postgres health check
- Migration errors: Check `migrations/` directory

### Frontend Shows 502 Bad Gateway

The frontend is trying to proxy to the backend but can't connect:
```bash
# Check if backend is running
docker-compose ps

# Check backend logs
docker-compose logs backend
```

## Differences from Production

This Docker setup is for **testing only**:

1. **No Security**:
   - No HTTPS
   - Hardcoded credentials
   - CORS fully open
   - No authentication

2. **No Gmail/Calendar Pollers**:
   - Requires real OAuth credentials
   - Not needed for UI testing

3. **Development Mode**:
   - More verbose logging
   - No optimizations

## Next Steps

Once you've tested the UI:
1. Set up real database (Neon PostgreSQL)
2. Configure Google OAuth credentials
3. Run services individually for development
4. See [QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md) for full setup

## Running Individual Services

You can run services independently:

```bash
# Just the database
docker-compose up postgres

# Database + Backend
docker-compose up postgres backend

# Everything
docker-compose up
```

## Cleaning Up

```bash
# Remove containers
docker-compose down

# Remove containers + volumes
docker-compose down -v

# Remove containers + volumes + images
docker-compose down -v --rmi all
```
